# Jabre's Tulpa Creation Guide

## Tulpas And Other Psychological Effects

The tulpa phenomenon is an ancient psychological practice that originated in Tibetan Buddhism around the same time period as lucid dreaming, although unfortunately, tulpas are not empirically studied yet. Tulpas are sentient entities that are willfully created inside someone's psyche. There is actually evidence that Socrates had a tulpa (he described it as a daemon, which later became a culturally known as a form of tulpa on the internet). Tulpas can best be described as conscious imaginary friends and are the product of two minds in one brain. They have their own emotions, thoughts, and feelings just as we do. Sound familiar? Well it is; most of the public knows of dissociative identity disorder, also called multiple personality disorder, in which subjects alternate sharing a body. The two are actually quite different. Both are formed from a single psychological process called dissociation. However, in DID, the dissociation is used involuntarily as a reflex mechanism to protect against traumatic memories. A single complex (groups of thoughts, emotions, and processes) is given the burden of the memory of the trauma by adding a persona to it. This splits the memory timelines effectively as the complex automates. Then it is allowed to connect to others, and soon it becomes cognitive. After this, it becomes self-aware: conscious and sentient. Then it develops an ego. This is the multiple. Because of the forced and unconscious nature of DID, symptoms manifest differently than in tulpas. Unlike tulpas, thought processes cannot run simultaneously and the multiples must trade off consciousness. In some cases, the use of a wonderland (a shared fantasy) can allow the two or more egos to operate correspondingly. During possession, the DID multiples go unconscious while they are trading off. Perhaps the biggest difference between DID and tulpas is that multiples cannot be superimposed onto the environment (seen in the real world in the form of a hallucination or vivid daydream). Tulpas are in short, intentional identity dissociation that causes different effects.

### Pros

Tulpas can have many upsides such as companionship, help with short-term memory, study buddies, cheating on tests, and other things! Ever had a game that you really liked, but you couldn't play because you didn't feel like going out and didn't have anyone to play with?

### Cons

Making a tulpa without thinking about it or making one because it sounds 'cool,' and you want to because it seems like the latest fad is a very bad thing. Making a tulpa is a life-altering change; it should be taken almost as seriously as having a child. Your tulpa is not just going to go away if you want to stop working on it; it slowly dies (although it can easily be revived). A tulpa will be there your entire life, so think hard if you really want that or if you might change your mind later. I suggest that you spend a month (although many won't listen) thinking about if you really want a tulpa. If your opinion still hasn't changed, then go for it.

## Myths

The most common myth is that you need to have a hundred or more hours to complete a tulpa. Tulpa creation is a deeply personal process; it really depends only on your ability to navigate your psyche. It can be done anywhere from 10-150 hours, although the average seems to be 30-70 hours. Another myth is that you need to tulpaforce your tulpa naked 'or else they won't be able to change clothes.' This is untrue. My tulpa currently has a school uniform, pajamas, some accessories, and a nice dress that my friend designed for her. She has been able to change (although she doesn't actually undress, she prefers to just summon the clothes on) freely. My other one, a werewolf, he barely needs clothes. He prefers wolf form. One myth states that puppeteering and parroting (moving your tulpa and forcing he/she to speak) can cause a servitor (a character without sentience), but in reality, a servitor cannot be accidentally made.

## Visualization

One of the most important things with tulpas is visualization. You will use visualization with nearly everything. This paragraph will teach you how to visualize, and how to begin your tulpa. First, you need to stare at anything. Then, ignore your vision. This may be hard to do, but just grab a thought and stick with it. This is a complex. Imagine you are flung into a dark void. You find a group of colors or webs amidst the starkness, an oasis of thoughts. This is a symbolic representation of a complex. The complex is of your future tulpa. His/her name, their persona, and what you may have imagined as their future body will all be stored in this complex. Focus on the cluster of colors in the dark. This is where you are. Focus on your tulpa. Do not begin to think about anything else. If you find your thoughts slipping, then gently bring them back to the tulpa. You can see other color groups far away, but you do not venture to them. If you cannot focus, push them farther into the void; they are away from you. You have successfully visualized, if you were paying more attention to your void-fantasy than your real surroundings. This may be natural for some, if they are avid readers or creative thinkers such as artists. But things get tricky when you close your eyes. You will suddenly be paying more attention to the darkness, since it is irregular and uncommon compared to sight. You may also be attempting to see the visualization on their eyelids; this will not work. Even though your eyes are closed, you are still paying attention to sight. This is bad. Instead, use memories to stimulate your fantasy. Make it realer, and see everything in vivid detail. If it doesn't work, then don't stop even if you want to give up. Soon, you will sink into your thoughts, and your fantasy will become very real when your eyes are closed. It is also important to see in first-person POV (point of view) to support immersion.

## Wonderland

A wonderland is a shared fantasy environment that you and your tulpa interact in when they are not superimposed in the real world as a hallucination. You need to construct your wonderland first. While it is not absolutely necessary to have one, I strongly recommend it, so your tulpa has something to do when you're not around. To make a wonderland, simply imagine being there. That's it. Walk around all of it to successfully make it. By that I mean, walk around what you intend to be in most often; most wonderlands don't have a border; new content is just generated by the unconscious. (And no, there's no such thing as the subconscious; when you say 'subconscious,' chances are, you really mean ' unconscious' because academic literature in psychology omits the term because of its pseudo-scientific origins. Please use the word 'unconscious.') Wonderland construction is as simple as that. Just imagine it, but do not limit yourself; your wonderland can be as big as you want.

## Personality

Personality isn't even needed for tulpa development, but some people want to make them. Simply go into your wonderland and imagine the group of colors from the visualization test before. Now condense them into a little white or blue ball of energy. Hold it in your wonderland-hands. Now, force other spheres of color to represent the traits you wish for. Then merge them with your tulpa's persona sphere. This should be done multiple times over many forcing sessions to complete the personality.

## Form


The form is where the point of view of the tulpa is. He/she will experience life from this POV because of pre-conscious memory and unconscious sensory processing (the host unconsciously processes his POV to make his tulpa's POV). I highly recommend that you work on form and sentience simultaneously, alternating forcing sessions. The form is made simply by imagining it in full detail from all angles. Do this repeatedly. First, make your sphere grow into a manikin of smoke. Then make the details. Start with the skeleton, then the organs, then the muscles. It is very important to put vocal chords and a brain in him or her. This symbolism will help with sentience and speech later on. The anatomy is used to help with imposition; making your tulpa move fluently and naturally. Then you can create the skin and clothes of whatever kind. Force from every angle. The face will be the hardest to see and the most blurry, but it will come easily later. You may experience deviation. This is when your tulpa's form changes and you have trouble reverting it. Do not try to fight it; this is caused by your pre-conscious of your to-be tulpa. It is part your tulpa and part your unconscious. To give your tulpa the ability to move, simply guide it through some motions; puppeteering can be helpful now, but take small doses. Then, tell it to move erratically so you can stop moving it. He/she will soon get used to the form. To test to see if you are puppeteering or not, spawn a feather on top of the tulpa's head. Focus on the feather oscillating so that no mental attention goes to moving the tulpa. If you see he/she move, then it was them because you are focussing on the feather. Do not become too paranoid of parroting and the likes, because it can slow development. Just assume everything is your tulpa. Even if it isn't, it will help later on. Once you can see the form easily culminating in the clarity of the face, then you can move on to speech, assuming you worked on sentience along with form.

## Sentience

Sentience should be made along with the form. To make your tulpa sentient (alive and conscious), then simply talk to it. You can talk to him/her during the day or during solid forcing sessions; it doesn't matter. Don't be looking for a response yet, just simply rant. This is called narration. It can cause headaches when your tulpa is very young, but not painful ones. They are sharp and quick, stroking your brain on either the right or left hemisphere, starting at the medulla and ending at the frontal lobe. These do not happen in everybody, so do not see it as a sign or focus too much on them. They are a symptom, not a cause. You may get simple emotions thrown at you. If you are in the wonderland, you may see your tulpa frown or smile or hug you or slap you. These are all signs of sentience. Tulpas are sentient from almost the very start; they are just infantile and unable to form thoughts and emotions properly. They may even consist of one repeating thought. But just that one thought is still your tulpa. That's how tulpas work: one thought is taken and given the ability to connect to other thoughts preconsciously and it grows and grows into an ego and persona. So treat your tulpa with respect and as if they were sentient, because even if they aren't fully cognitive, there's still that one thought. Don't worry though, tulpas develop sentience very fast if you don't unconsciously stop them by believing they won't.

## Speech

Start speech after form and sentience have been at least started. Speech can be one of the most frustrating and longest processes in tulpa creation. To hear your tulpa, start in the wonderland. Parrot a few words in order to hear their voice, and then ask them to say something. If they do not respond, imagine them starting a sentence, and have them finish it. You will notice your thoughts run once you stop the sentence, and then a random ending will spring into your consciousness. In the wonderland, your tulpa said this. Now query a few more questions. You may start a conversation or communicate non-verbally and with fantasy if you want to. After a while, your tulpa will get the hang of talking in the wonderland, and you two can carry out long conversations about anything. Tulpaforcing will get five times more interesting then. Now, try talking to your tulpa outside of the wonderland. You may hear their mind-voice (telepathy) instead of their sound voice, or you may hear both. You may find that your tulpa says something similar to what you thought earlier, that telepathy gets frustrating, and/or that he/she only seems to talk when you expect him/her to. Do not worry, this is completely normal for progressively speaking tulpas, but this is somewhat of a problem. It will be fixed with parallel processing training. Your tulpa is sentient, and you aren't parroting him, so do not worry about any problems such as these. Just keep on having conversations during tulpaforcing and carrying on as usually done.

## Parallel Processing

Parallel processing is the ability for you and your tulpa to think simultaneously without accidentally interfering with each others thoughts. (Yes, tulpas can mistake their thoughts for the host's too; it's a two way street.) It is meant to help with sentience and speech. It improves a tulpas cognitive abilities. The following training promotes parallel processing by automating and further dissociating the host and tulpa from each other. First, do memory exercises. Have your tulpa try short-term memory (“What did I just say thirty seconds ago?”), then long-term memory (“When was the first time you got murdered by that wonderland volcano?”), and then finally try working memory by doing some basic math with him/her. After they become reliable and efficient at subtraction and addition, go onto harder, more complex, equations. This will increase cognition and logic skills. Second, play a game of twenty questions. Have both of you take turns forcing an imaginary object into a small black box in the wonderland. Only one of you knows what is in the box. Ask your tulpa or have your tulpa ask you twenty questions about the object in the box. The goal is to refrain from using telepathy to win, but to use simple verbal skills and logic. Hopefully by now this will wear at the overpowering telepathic semblance between you guys. After this, the best thing to do is to play a game of chess. This will exercise both of your minds extremely efficiently, severing the too-strong tie.

## Superimposition

Your imaginary buddy can talk, think, walk, now what? Superimposition is how the tulpa views the real physical world. Unfortunately, no one else can see him obviously, but you can. I explained how POV works in the 'Form' section. Now, you most likely want to impose your tulpa. To do this, sit in a chair, staring at a blank wall. Close your eyes and enter the wonderland. In there, spawn a Portal Gun. Shoot a portal at a wall. Then, see through the portal your room from the point of view of your wall. Imagine the chair as if it were empty. Really see your room. Now, walk through the portal in the wonderland and enter the wonderland version of your room. Sit in the chair. See the portal leading to your wonderland. Open your eyes, but do not transition to reality. Everything should look exactly as imagined because you were sitting in the chair in the wonderland too. See the portal on the wall, even though your eyes are open. Sit there for about twenty minutes, staring at the wall and imagining the portal. Through the portal, see your wonderland. Tell your tulpa to look through. Then tell him/her to cross. They are now in the real world. Walk around your tulpa to see them spatially. Try brushing your hand against them to feel them. Imagine them there. Do not expect your tulpa to be a total hallucination on day one of imposition. It can take about a year or more to make them seem as real as anything else, but for now they are still very real. They will be transparent somewhat, and will be like a vivid daydream as you get better. They will still feel pretty real, just a different kind of real. Now, do forcing sessions with seeing your tulpa in your peripheral vision, and slowly move them into your line of sight. This will promote them to turn into a hallucination. (Do not worry. Tulpas are not a mental disease, and you are in total control. If it gets to this point even, you will not hallucinate anything else.) Also have your tulpa follow you everywhere almost all the time. If an area gets too crowded, simply ask them to go to the wonderland or fly.

## Possession

Hand possession is the first and easiest. Begin to shake your hand slightly. Go into the wonderland and imagine them moving your hand. Then, open your eyes. Find a thought to focus on, and do not pay attention to your hand. Tell your tulpa to attempt to move it. It will be helpful if he/she is not imposed at the moment. Tulpas usually have bad handwriting upon first starting, from my experience. To do full body possession, find a thought again, and tell your tulpa to move the body. It sounds simple, but it can be very hard. Vocal possession is the hardest. You need to imagine your vocal chords fluctuating. Make simple and random sounds as you focus on something else. Again, tell your tulpa to take control. There is very little you can do except practice a lot when it comes to possession. During possession, you can still see what is happening and can stop it at any time.

## Switching

Switching is fully leaving control of the body up to the tulpa. You cannot see what is happening during switching. You either black out or go to the wonderland. It requires a fair amount of trust to do switching. Focus on each of your senses and create a wonderland sense to overpower it. This will slowly shut down your sensory input. Leave sight for the very last, because it is the hardest. Then, tell your tulpa to take control of the body. Switching takes an extreme amount of time and effort, but it can be rewarding. I have never, myself, tried switching.

## Death

A tulpa lives with you your entire life, but sometimes some things can go wrong. Perhaps the tulpa becomes suicidal or perhaps it's existence triggers a mental disorder because of unstable brain chemistry and a few psychological factors, but most of the time, death of the tulpa can be unfortunately common in these cases. If a tulpa seems to be causing deterioration of psychological health, then I advise you to terminate it. A tulpa is sentient, making what I said morally perverse, but a dangerous part of one's psyche simply cannot be kept around; you are the birth consciousness. While it is extremely unfortunate, sometimes things have to be done. That does not mean that I excuse the host either. A host who does this is severely irresponsible in making a tulpa. This is another warning about thinking long and hard about whether you truly want a tulpa. Compared to human moral standards: abortion or homicide?
It is your choice. A tulpa will die if it does not get your libido (no, not the sexual kind) for reasons not fully understood. When a tulpa 'dies' it deactivates its sentience. Parallel processing, memory, and cognition collapse. Then it becomes completely unconscious. It can take years for a tulpa to fully dissipate. A tulpa can be brought back to life because their memories and such are still kept. Nothing is thrown out in the human brain; your tulpa's contents are in the unconscious and to revive him/her, you retrieve them.

## Conclusion

A tulpa can be a gift and a curse, but you should really consider how your life will change with a tulpa. It is made through a process called dissociation, and is another completely astounding marvel of the human brain and psyche. So tulpas and hosts, give a shout out to your brains, because it has made your minds. 
